docs: move template type checking info into template type checking doc (#34435)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/template-typecheck.md

However, in full mode, Angular checks that `config` and `user` exist and assumes a type of `any`.
In strict mode, Angular knows that the `user` in the `<span>` has a type of `User`, and that `address` is an object with a `city` property of type `string`.

> Template validation produces error messages when a type error is detected in a template binding  expression, similar to how type errors are reported by the TypeScript compiler against code in a `.ts` file.

Reviewer: I think we have to play around a bit with the structure of this doc. This is now below `ngFor` checking, which I don't think is desirable.

For example, consider the following component:

```typescript
  @Component({
    selector: 'my-component',
    template: '{{person.addresss.street}}'
  })
  class MyComponent {
    person?: Person;
  }
```

This produces the following error:

```bash

>   my.component.ts.MyComponent.html(1,1): : Property 'addresss' does not exist on type 'Person'. Did you mean 'address'?

Reviewer: This is the "old" formatting of an error, even including the cute double colon 😄

The new style is similar to the following:

```
my.component.html:1:11 - error TS2339: Property 'addresss' does not exist on type 'Person'. Did you mean 'address'?

1         {{person.addresss.street}}
                   ~~~~~~~~
```

 ```

> The file name reported in the error message, `my.component.ts.MyComponent.html`, is a synthetic file

Reviewer: For Ivy, this is no longer accurate. Either the path of the .ts file is shown for inline templates (`template`), or the path of the .html file is used for external templates (`templateUrl`).

Author: Is this better?

> The file name reported in the error message, `my.component.ts.MyComponent.html`, is either the path of the .ts file is shown for inline templates (template), or the path of the .html file is used for external templates (templateUrl).

> The line and column numbers are relative to the template string in the `@Component()` annotation of the class, `MyComponent` in this case.

> generated by the template compiler that holds contents of the `MyComponent` class template.

Author: A rebase has changed this sentence significantly since review so that it now reads:

>The file name reported in the error message, `my.component.ts.MyComponent.html`, is either the path of the .ts file is shown for inline templates (template), or the path of the .html file is used for external templates (templateUrl).

I've edited it to:
>The file name reported in the error message, `my.component.ts.MyComponent.html`, is either the path of the `.ts` file for inline templates (template), or the path of the `.html` file for external templates (templateUrl).

If a component uses `templateUrl` instead of `template`, the errors are reported in the HTML file referenced by the `templateUrl` instead of a synthetic file.

The error location is the beginning of the text node that contains the interpolation expression with the error.
If the error is in an attribute binding such as `[value]="person.address.street"`, the error
location is the location of the attribute that contains the error.

The validation uses the TypeScript type checker and the options supplied to the TypeScript compiler to control how detailed the type validation is.
For example, if the `strictTypeChecks` is specified, the error
```my.component.ts.MyComponent.html(1,1): : Object is possibly 'undefined'```
is reported as well as the above error message.

## Type narrowing

The expression used in an `ngIf` directive is used to narrow type unions in the Angular
template compiler, the same way the `if` expression does in TypeScript.
For example, to avoid `Object is possibly 'undefined'` error in the template above, modify it to only emit the interpolation if the value of `person` is initialized as shown below:

```typescript
  @Component({
    selector: 'my-component',

>     template: '<span *ngIf="person"> {{person.addresss.street}} </span>'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    template: '<span *ngIf="person"> {{person.address.street}} </span>'
```

  })
  class MyComponent {
    person?: Person;
  }
```

Using `*ngIf` allows the TypeScript compiler to infer that the `person` used in the binding expression will never be `undefined`.

> ### Custom `ngIf` like directives

Reviewer: My vote would be to remove this as it stands now, also see #33943.

The reason being that this particular syntax is no longer considered in Ivy, as it has been replaced with a more general concept referred to as _template guards_. Alternatively, we can rewrite it using the new syntax.

Author: Removed.

Directives that behave like `*ngIf` can declare that they want the same treatment by including a static member marker that is a signal to the template compiler to treat them like `*ngIf`. This static member for `*ngIf` is:

```typescript
    public static ngIfUseIfTypeGuard: void;
```

This declares that the input property `ngIf` of the `NgIf` directive should be treated as a guard to the use of its template, implying that the template will only be instantiated if the `ngIf` input property is true.

## Non-null type assertion operator

> Use the [non-null type assertion operator](guide/template-syntax#non-null-assertion-operator) to suppress the `Object is possibly 'undefined'` error when it is inconvenient to use `*ngIf` or when some constraint in the component ensures that the expression is always non-null when the binding expression is interpolated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the [non-null type assertion operator](guide/template-syntax#non-null-assertion-operator) to suppress the `Object is possibly 'undefined'` error when it is inconvenient to use `*ngIf`. You can also use this operator when a constraint in the component ensures that the expression is always non-null when the binding expression is interpolated.
```

Note: Be wary of long sentences. Users tend to skip reading them.

However, in full mode, Angular checks that `config` and `user` exist and assumes a type of `any`.
In strict mode, Angular knows that the `user` in the `<span>` has a type of `User`, and that `address` is an object with a `city` property of type `string`.

Template validation produces error messages when a type error is detected in a template binding  expression, similar to how type errors are reported by the TypeScript compiler against code in a `.ts` file.

For example, consider the following component:

```typescript
  @Component({
    selector: 'my-component',
    template: '{{person.addresss.street}}'
  })
  class MyComponent {
    person?: Person;
  }
```

This produces the following error:

```bash
  my.component.html:1:11 - error TS2339: Property 'addresss' does not exist on type 'Person'. Did you mean 'address'?

> 1         {{person.addresss.street}}

Reviewer 3: It might be helpful to show the underline of the error span on the line here too, if we have a nice way of rendering it.
```suggestion
1         {{person.addresss.street}}
            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

Author: We don't have any special styles for rendering it, but I've added `~` to see how we feel about it in the preview.

 ```

The file name reported in the error message, `MyComponent.html`, is either the path of the `.ts` file for inline templates (template), or the path of the `.html` file for external templates (templateUrl).

If a component uses `templateUrl` instead of `template`, the errors are reported in the HTML file referenced by the `templateUrl` instead of a synthetic file.

> The error location is the beginning of the text node that contains the interpolation expression with the error.

Reviewer 3: This section is still a little confused.

In general, errors will be correctly highlighted within the file that contains the template.

For `templateUrl`/`.html` templates, this means the error will be shown in the context of the HTML template text.

For `template`/inline templates, the error will be shown just like any other TypeScript error in the file, except it'll point inside the template string at the actual location of the binding/expression/whatever that produced the error. Basically, the _exact_ same error location is shown, but it's within the TypeScript file.

This is all minutiae, though. The real takeaway for users is that template errors are now reported like any other TypeScript error, regardless of what kind of template is in use: you get line/col number references that correctly point to the location of the error, and a nice colored highlight of the erroneous expression within the line.

> If the error is in an attribute binding such as `[value]="person.address.street"`, the error

Reviewer 3: In general, the error should point at the actual part of the expression which failed type-checking.

Certain errors relate to the presence of the binding itself though, and should point at the attribute instead.

location is the location of the attribute that contains the error.

> The validation uses the TypeScript type checker and the options supplied to the TypeScript compiler to control how detailed the type validation is.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The validation uses the TypeScript type checker and so the options supplied to the TypeScript compiler control how detailed the type validation is.
```
A slight change, but more accurate: because we use the TS type checker, template type-checking is governed by the same settings that apply to other TS code in the project, which are determined by the compiler options.

> For example, if the `strictTypeChecks` is specified, the error

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, if the `strictNullChecks` is specified, the error
```

Author: Holding on this one per https://github.com/angular/angular/pull/34435#discussion_r425318202

> ```my.component.ts.MyComponent.html(1,1): : Object is possibly 'undefined'```

Reviewer 3: I don't think this is how errors in a project actually appear.

The filename is confused between a TS and HTML file, but also, normal TS errors have an error code (TS1034 or something for example), and the offset won't be at 1,1 (the very first character in the template) but will be at the location of the actual error.

This kind of resembles a View Engine template error which usually did show 1,1 and didn't have TS codes.

Author: I removed this sentence for the time being and will replace it With the correct error message if we decide to include it. At the moment, I will push up the other updates.

is reported as well as the above error message.

## Type narrowing

The expression used in an `ngIf` directive is used to narrow type unions in the Angular
template compiler, the same way the `if` expression does in TypeScript.
For example, to avoid `Object is possibly 'undefined'` error in the template above, modify it to only emit the interpolation if the value of `person` is initialized as shown below:

```typescript
  @Component({
    selector: 'my-component',
    template: '<span *ngIf="person"> {{person.address.street}} </span>'
  })
  class MyComponent {
    person?: Person;
  }
```

> Using `*ngIf` allows the TypeScript compiler to infer that the `person` used in the binding expression will never be `undefined`.

Reviewer 3: Beautiful example, I love this not only demonstrates how the checker indicates problems, but shows you that the errors reported actually make sense and are actionable.

## Non-null type assertion operator

> Use the [non-null type assertion operator](guide/template-syntax#non-null-assertion-operator) to suppress the `Object is possibly 'undefined'` error when it is inconvenient to use `*ngIf`. You can also use this operator when a constraint in the component ensures that the expression is always non-null when the binding expression is interpolated.

Reviewer 3: I legitimately did not know this was possible in template syntax. TIL!
